Hi, I'm Glen.
I'm going to talk to you about Oak Log, which is
a cooperative experiment that we've started in the Oakland area to
build a community calendar, so a kind of commons for event
data.
And for a little context for approach, I have some scar tissue
from crypto, and so one of the things that I really like
this term sewer socialism, and I think Zoran in New
York is one of the folks that exemplifies this, which is
you win someone's trust over through an outcome rather than ideology.
So I think as we've gone through this project, even though
I think about it as like digital public media infrastructure, I try
to really ground it in we are helping Oaklanders and other
Bay Area folk find and go to local events, and we happen
to be using that protocol.
This all starts with the Oakland Review of Books, which is a
new alt weekly that helped start last year.
And as part of the Oakland Review of books, we started to
publish a community calendar of literary events, of cultural events, of protests,
and it got some real great pickup.
And so one of the things I saw, this is Martina,
who does a lot of this work for us, and it was
a huge pain for her to do this work.
All of these events are fragmented all over the place, so
getting all that data in one place was a real pain.
And then the part that she actually really liked to do that
was also really valuable for our audience, which is that curation,
the taste, telling people why that this might be an interesting thing
to go to.
And that was a tiny portion of the work that she actually
got to do.
So we built some tools, Discord bot and some other CMS tools
just to help us manage this.
And one of the things we started realizing as we talked to
lots of other people around the Bay is that there's there
's tons, there's dozens of folks that are doing the same
thing, the same putting together these kind of curated calendars.
And so what we decided to do is just get them all
in one room.
So we invited all of the folks, the public media station, the
neighborhood calendar makers, there's lots of folks, alt weeklies, news
rooms, all that are doing the same thing of managing calendars
and helping people find events.
So we got everybody together and we talked about how might we
share practices, share tools, share data, what would that look like?
And one thing that came out of that is everyone had the
same sense of how do we do this thing together?
We need a mega calendar, but but not dystopian.
And so we can just do things.
And so we started to talk about what it might look like
to do this together on an open protocol.
And so we kind of walked through and I think those are
some of the lessons of how we've talked about this is,
so you know, starting with something like on Instagram reels, where
you have a venue publishing their data in this form, we've
moved that out now into a database that each of our individual
organizations are using, whether it's Grist or Airtable
or Excel, what have you.
And the next step is, can we do this in a shared
database?
Then, you know, here's the at proto record of a calendar
event.
And so, you know, one of the helpful points here is, you
know, can you start wherever you get your events, much like wherever
you get to your podcasts, and actually have that event data that
venues want out there anyways, actually be available.
And then there's a lot more we can start doing with
it.
And some of the advantages that were really attractive to the publishers
is one is how do we start sharing these workflow tools.
So we have our discord bot, there are others who have been
building tools that are scraping venue sites or big event sites, and
tons of folks where it's just how does the venue actually
create their own event or submit it to publishers, all going into
the same lexicon, the same data that we can then
use.
And on the other end, we start being able to do a
lot more with that data now that we've all collaborated on
that shared element.
So one is we can still maintain editorial control, we can still
curate what is showing up in our individual publications and the
commentary that we put around it, but we can also collaborate.
So if we add an event, then Coyote, you know,
if Orb adds something, and Coyote, your same page SF
can use that same, that same data, we can play with whatever
format we like, whether it's in a post or in a
calendar, and really excited to start exploring more of the social functionality
of can we can we see what folks in your social network
are interested in attending or going and not have it be specific
to Luma or Eventbrite or others, I think it
starts getting much more attractive from the user perspective.
So focusing a little bit more on the publisher control piece, so
we can still publish as we do in a newsletter.
But I think there's some other interesting examples here.
This middle one is from Roundabout at New Public.
And one of the things that they're really focused on is
how do you moderate, you know, have a local neighborhood steward
actually be able to moderate what goes on there.
I think they're using the same, same schema that we are,
I think there's going to be some really interesting ways to
interoperate there.
Another really interesting example, this is a group down in the Bay
called the relational tech project.
And what they're doing is enabling neighborhood stewards to use AI
tools to build their own applications, including things like calendar apps.
And so and allow that to be much more situated and kind
of fit for what that community needs.
So, you know, the community of the outer sunset, for instance, in
San Francisco also wants to see, you know, how the waves are,
for instance, and incorporate things that make sense for that community.
So what's next from here is after our community calendar conference,
we had not only a bunch of these media organizations excited, we
have a bunch of people who really want to collaborate on the
tech side.
And one in particular, it's really interesting is KQED,
which is our big local NPR station that is really interested
in anchoring and supporting this.
And so we're starting to go down the path of what
might it look like to create a community PDS for the
Oakland Bay Area and specifically starting with with events.
We're also starting to explore new local applications that actually take
advantage of this collaboration.
So one organization is thinking about doing a pop up calendar that
's kind of poorly suited for existing things like Yelp and
others.
So that's one thing we're looking into.
Others are things more like a TV guide-ish, like what's
happening right now in Oakland, the Bay Area.
So I think there's going to be a lot of things
that we can start building on top of this.
We're starting with the media curators that are already trusted,
that already have audience, that already have attention.
But from there, we're really excited to expand that participation and
get more venues involved and ultimately more residents.
And then we're also looking at beyond what this group can
do together just on events, but thinking more generally about what does
the local community API look like?
What is all the public data that we could could share?
I think there's lots of other use cases of things like
buy nothing groups or lending libraries or, you know, lots of things
that exist on kind of the margins of existing social platforms that
if we had more of a public spectrum for the open social
web, we can see really different applications develop.
Much like in the US, the kind of content you see on
PBS or NPR is quite a bit different than the way
you see commercially.
And then ideally, this all feeds into, hey, if this works in
Oakland in the Bay Area and works for this NPR station
or this Alt Weekly, how do we create this playbook that
allows other geographies to do similar things of building for themselves?
Yeah, so that's where we are.
It's all kind of emergent, but I think what I
really love about it is it feels like a great demonstration of
what I think is the promise of these applications on that protocol,
which is really by collaborating across organization, can we actually build something
that has a better experience for the users?
You don't need to know anything about how this is built
other than everybody has collaborated to make it better, and that's
what you see.
And so we can just do things together is the point.
So let's hope on.